---
layout: article
title: "Goals for 2015"
categories: blog
date: 2015-01-04
modified:
excerpt: My goals for 2015 as a junior web developer.
tags: []
image:
  feature: new_years.png
  teaser: new_years_teaser.jpg
  thumb:
share: true
comments: true
---

### Goal 1: Consume Less, Create More

As a new web developer, it is really easy to get lost trying to absorb everything that you come across. At one point during the web development immersive program I definitely  had at least 50+ tabs open about different technologies and documents that I wanted to look into. It took me a few weeks to realize it, but I was absorbing way too much information without implementing it. Tutorials are a good thing to do, but you should not spend all of your time doing them. The main issue that I ran into with Codecademy, was that I felt like I didn’t really know how to use what I learned after I finished a course. I’m a hands on and visual learner, so I learn more whenever I work on a project that I am passionate about. Which brings me to my next goal.

### Goal 2: Focus On Mastering 

Web development is comparable to a giant ocean of knowledge that is constantly changing. It is very important to stay up to date and keep up with the current trends, but as a beginner this is obviously the wrong thing to do. As a beginner myself, I realized that the best thing you can do is to go at a pace that you feel comfortable with. The first thing that anyone should do starting out to focus all of your attention to one or two specific languages and make it your goal to master it. You need to learn process of learning a new language. As of right now I am still undecided between Ruby and JavaScript and I honestly don’t know enough about each of them to go in one direction yet. 


### Goal 3: Write A Blog Post Once A Week

There are many reasons why I decided to start a blog:

>To become a better writer
>
>To become a better thinker
>
>To inspire others
>
>To interact and meet new people

However, the main reason I decided to start a blog was to track my progress as a developer. I would like to look back a year from now to see how far I’ve come. So I plan on making it a habit to write a post at least once a week.

### Goal 4: Start a YouTube Channel

I believe that once you are able to explain a concept to someone, you actually understand to concept more when teaching others.This goal is mostly from my past jobs in video, animation, and design. I may not accomplish this goal in 2015, but I am very interested in teaching others. 

<br>
Feel free to leave a comment below and thanks for reading!
